README.md, before:

# Create polar area charts 
A Python script to create and fill in PolarCharts with some values and labels

## How to run
### Executive Assessment Script
1. Create a folder and place the attached script & Users.xlsx file in the folder (download this Google Sheet here and rename Users.xlsx) - Or change line 48 if you don't want to rename.
2. Open a terminal and cd to that folder
3. And then run the below command
```docker run -t -i -v ${PWD}:/tmp python bash```
4. Then install the below packages
```pip install numpy plotly pandas openpyxl```
5. And then inside the container cd to /tmp location and run the below command
```python main.py```
6. Above command will generate an Assesment.html file inside the same directory, all of the diagrams will be in a single html page labelled, scroll down.
You only need to duplicate the tabs and keep the format for each of the people you want to perform an assessment of. Label each tab with the person's name as the script uses this as a label for the diagrams.
7. To edit, change column B in Users.xlsx. Use a new tab for each person.

Commit message:

Master (#9)
* Added a properties file for colours so they are not hard-coded into main.py

* Added a properties file for colours so they are not hard-coded into main.py

* Added a properties file for colours so they are not hard-coded into main.py

* Updated comments

* new file

* debug only

* Added a properties file for colours so they are not hard-coded into main.py

* Added Test case and renamed main.py

* Added some file checks

README.md, after:

# Create polar area charts 
A Python script to create and fill in PolarCharts with some values and labels

## How to run
### Script in a Container
1. Create a folder and place the attached script & Users.xlsx file in the folder (download this Google Sheet here and rename Users.xlsx) - Or change line 48 if you don't want to rename.
2. Open a terminal and cd to that folder
3. And then run the below command
```docker run -t -i -v ${PWD}:/tmp python bash```
4. Then install the below packages
```pip install numpy plotly pandas openpyxl```
5. And then inside the container cd to /tmp location and run the below command
```python main.py```
6. This will generate an Assesments.html file inside the same directory, all of the diagrams will be in a single html page labelled, scroll down.
You only need to duplicate the tabs and keep the format for each of the people you want to perform an assessment of. Label each tab with the person's name as the script uses this as a label for the diagrams.
7. To edit, change column B in Users.xlsx. Use a new tab for each person.

#### Script locally
1. Create a folder and place the attached script & Users.xlsx file in the folder (download this Google Sheet here and rename Users.xlsx) - Or change line 48 if you don't want to rename.
2. Open a terminal and cd to that folder
3. And then run the below command
```python PolarAreaChart.py```
4. This will generate an Assessments.html file inside the same directory, all of the diagrams will be in a single html page labelled, scroll down.
You only need to duplicate the tabs and keep the format for each of the people you want to perform an assessment of. Label each tab with the person's name as the script uses this as a label for the diagrams.
5. To edit, change column B in Users.xlsx. Use a new tab for each person.
